I'm Rachel Butler I am a marine
biologist and wildlife filmmaker and
I've just finished working on oceans our
blue planet I've seen some pretty
amazing things underwater like being in
the middle of a super pod of dolphins or
coming face-to-face with ragged-tooth
sharks in the middle of a shipwreck when
people hear about these amazing wildlife
encounters they often ask how do you
become a marine biologist my first
answer would be you need to figure out
what your passion is for me it all
started when I was a little girl almost
every single day in the summer my dad
and I would go Rock pooling but as soon
as I watched the film Free Willy I
became a little bit obsessed with orcas
and with whales I draw a little Auckland
sand little Orca heads whale head for
mermaids and scribble all over my school
books because there I was always
daydreaming about about what else might
living under the waves
but daydreaming would only get me so far
to achieve my goals I had to study the
obvious choices for subjects at school
our biology chemistry physics
mathematics geography to be completely
honest though just as long as you study
biology or you have an understanding of
biology all you really need to have is
passion and beyond your studies you need
to think about how you want to spend
your time you need to ask yourself what
kind of marine biologists do you want to
be do you want to be on the ocean or in
the ocean do you want to be working in a
laboratory are you happier with a
microscope or do you want to be in a
submersible under the ocean
do you want to be working in the polls
do you want to be in the tropics do you
want to be a wildlife filmmaker do you
want to find the next species out there
you might want to develop the next
technologies that will allow us to
explore even more of the oceans whether
that be an ROV or or drones or
satellites that will look on the ocean
from above once you know what your
passion is and you've got your
qualifications then go and get
experience my passion as well as Wales
was coral reefs and so I wanted to learn
as much as I possibly could about corals
so I volunteered with a charity for
seven months it's one thing reading
about animals underwater and it's
another immersing yourself in the
underwater world and diving down and
seeing these animals firsthand with this
group I learned over 300 different
species of tropical fish about a hundred
different species of coral and about 150
species of invertebrate
and whilst I was there I got a lot of
dives under my belts and became a
competent diver and it was these skills
that helped me to get my first ever job
as a marine biologist on the Great
Barrier Reef in Australia
from here I decided to pursue a career
in underwater wildlife filmmaking when I
think back to being a little girl being
obsessed with walkers and whales I can't
quite believe that I've just finished
working on a film called oceans our blue
planet it's been a dream come true the
ocean covers two-thirds of our planet
and marine biologists have made so many
amazing discoveries about what lives in
the oceans and what happens in there but
yet with that vast an area there are so
many more incredible discoveries I'm
sure still to be found such as word of
whale sharks go to give birth how does
sperm whales catch giant squid what else
lives in the deep sea and when we found
some incredible things down there just
think about the other amazing things are
down there that we have no idea even
exists yet and I find that a really
exciting thought who are the next
generation of marine biologists and
filmmakers and what are they going to
discover